README.md, before:

# Service Factory Builder

Reads in Liferay `service.xml` (one or more) and generates Factory Java classes that enable a fluid Builder Pattern like syntax to create new entries.

Developed for Liferay 7.2 at the moment.

## Installation / preparation for usage
If you have jdk 8 / 11 installed you can build from sources:

Unix (Linux / MacOS / Bash on Windows / WSL): `./gradlew installDist`

Windows: `gradlew installDist`

## Usage
The tool uses a self-documentating CLI, you may run the help as follows:

Unix: `./build/install/service-factory-builder/bin/service-factory-builder --help`

Windows: `build\install\service-factory-builder\bin\service-factory-builder.bat --help`

## Ideas / Questions?
Go ahead and open a ticket!

## Relevant tips for development
generate jaxb classes:

`xjc -dtd -d src/main/java -encoding utf8 -p com.github.ckaag.service.factory.builder.xml liferay-service-builder.dtd`
`xjc -dtd -d src/main/java -encoding utf8 -p com.github.ckaag.service.factory.builder.hints portlet-model-hints.dtd`

## Future road map
* integration as gradle plugin
* integration as maven plugin
* more test cases
* copy methods for use outside service layer

Commit message:

fix: improvements to generated code on complex typed cases, as well as more documentation in README.md

README.md, after:

# Service Factory Builder

Reads in Liferay `service.xml` (one or more) and generates Factory Java classes that enable a fluid Builder Pattern like syntax to create new entries.

Developed for Liferay 7.2 at the moment.

## Installation / preparation for usage
If you have jdk 8 / 11 installed you can build from sources:

Unix (Linux / MacOS / Bash on Windows / WSL): `./gradlew installDist`

Windows: `gradlew installDist`

## Usage
The tool uses a self-documentating CLI, you may run the help as follows:

Unix: `./build/install/service-factory-builder/bin/service-factory-builder --help`

Windows: `build\install\service-factory-builder\bin\service-factory-builder.bat --help`


## Example output

Assume we have a 'CustomValue' entity and columns `classPk` `columnId` `value` are set as `required` in `src/resources/portlet-model-hints.xml`. The following output will be possible:

`CustomValue customValue = CustomValueFactory.builder().setClassPk(1).setColumnId(2).setValue("my new value").build(this.customValuePersistence);`


The following assumes `typed=true` mode: `CustomValueFactory.builder()` creates a new builder object. Once all required fields were set at least once (they can still be set to values like null if you really want), you can finish the pattern with a `build()` method. This method has multiple overloads that take some requirements (based on your use case) because it has to have an autogenerated primary key. The reason for this is that `CustomValue` is an interface, and the implementation may be invisible to outside modules where the code may be used. Solutions to this issue are very welcome as tickets or pull requests!.

The primary reason for this whole generated factory class is to prevent coding mistakes that stem from forgetting to set a specific required column before storing / processing the resulting entity.



## Ideas / Questions?
Go ahead and open a ticket!

## Relevant tips for development
generate jaxb classes:

`xjc -dtd -d src/main/java -encoding utf8 -p com.github.ckaag.service.factory.builder.xml liferay-service-builder.dtd`
`xjc -dtd -d src/main/java -encoding utf8 -p com.github.ckaag.service.factory.builder.hints portlet-model-hints.dtd`

## Future road map
* integration as gradle plugin
* integration as maven plugin
* more test cases
* copy methods for use outside service layer
